# Cosmolosophy
   Philosophical cosmology with the postulate that the creation of the universe is ongoing.
My project began with the idea that the creation of the universe is an aspect of its nature.  To test that postulate I studied, took the GRE and was admitted to grad school in astronomy at Berkeley in a Masters program in 1995.  My masters thesis on the formation of globular star clusters enabled me to apply for the Doctoral program.  I was admitted.   My dissertation used HST spectra of nearby quasars to probe intergalactic space for primordial clouds of hydrogen, presented by Penton et al., (2000a,b).  My purpose was to find the primordial cloud population in cosmic voids.  I was able to do this using galaxy redshift catalogs to calculate the tidal fields exerted by all galaxies within 7.5 megaparsecs of the line of sight to the quasars.  My idea was to use the relative smallness of the tidal fields as a proxy for isolation and hence voids.  With this information I was able to show that the population of primordial clouds of hydrogen in voids was almost an order of magnitude greater than big bang simulations predicted. Furthermore, I found that these clouds were concentrated near void centers -- something that would only happen if matter were continuing to be created.
   Unfortunately, because my work was so out-of-step with the direction of research at that time, it was pointedly ignored by the Department, and the field in general.  
   My reaction was to commit to building the theory that would explain my observations.  This theory is now complete and is available on my website (https://curtismanning.net).  The cosmology that emerges is inflationary -- but not with a cosmological constant but with a constant deceleration parameter, q=-2/5.  This result enables me to calculate the relationship between the age of the universe and the Hubble constant:  t=5/3H.  For the present, 5/3H=23.1 billion years.  The galaxies being found at redshifts greater than 10 by the James Webb Space Telescope are seen in an universe over 4 billion years old, with a lookback time greater than 18 billion years.
  In discussion about problems with the big bang theory, it is rare that discussion includes the many problems of astrophysical nature.  For instance, the conditions under which the field galaxies must have been formed did not exist at the redshifts that the standard model suggests -- about 13.5 billion years ago.  This would put the redshift of their formation at redshifts of about 15.  Our model puts the formation of our Milky Way at a redshift of about 3.2 -- the period at which Lyman break galaxies are seen forming.  The LBGs are the forming bulges of grand-design spiral galaxies, with co-moving or space densities quite comparable to that of giant field galaxies locally, as one one would expect if LBGs are the precursors of the field galaxies of today.  This is one of many cases where the standard model is demonstrably problematic, and where the continuing creation theory is accurate.  My treatise, (The Creation of the Universe as an Ongoing Process), thoroughly discusses the metaphysical, astrophysical and cosmological nature of the continuing creation model and where and why the standard or big bang model fails.
  My current project is to bring this work into the public consciousness.
